RA segmentation Instructions

Step 0:	Setting up Folders


Step 1: CavityDialation

Make 2 labels in this order:

Exterior (Default)
Inside (Default)
LA
RA

Use Utah data and threshold amira function to add the LAendoNoVeins and LAwall data to LA. then lock layer
Use Erins data if available and threshold function to get RA (since LA is locked it will not overwrite)
This gives initial RA region. Then remove and add the cavity manually using the brush and blow tools.
For where there is an opening in the RA, add more cavity than what is needed. Then use the brush tool and interpolation
on the excess material to get a gradual straight line. Then remove this from the RA selection.

ctrl: 	negative shading
alt:  	straight line
ctrl i: interpolate active shading

Points of note:
Jump RA to tricuspid valve when the LA starts. 
Remove all roofs and RA data with no cavity (but has wall).
SVC and IVC must last longer than the other portions of the RA.
Pericardium should not be counted in RA.



After it is decent, save the mask in a folder named CavityMask and save this under the directory with all other data for the same scan.
in CavityDialation.m select the range where the RA if open if using erins data. (~ line 89)
run CavityDialation.m in matlab and put the output into amira to begin step 2.


Step 2: ConnectSeptum

Make 5 labels in this order:

Exterior (Default)
Inside (Default)
Septum
Remove
Add
RA
LA

First load the new output of CavityDialation. Use thresholding in amira to add values of 2 and 4 to the LA.
Lock LA.
Then use threshold to add 1 to RA (do not add 3 and do not lock yet).
Go to brush load the original MRI data and select "select only current material"
Go over all the excess material where the opening should be. Add this selection to the "Remove" label.
Then lock Remove.
Now add 3 to the RA label via thresholding using the cavity dialtion output data and then lock RA.
use brush to go ovre regions where too much RA wall has been removed. add this to the "Add" label and lock after complete.
Lastly select "Exterior" and in brush choose "select only current material".
Cover the septum area (it will be easy because all the surrounding regions are locked and labelled)
Add the selection to septum.

Export as tif to a folder named "SeptumConnection" under the directory with the other data for this heart.
run ConnectSeptum.m

RA segmentation completed.

Manually adjust as required.
